[MUSIC]
>> In this lecture,
I'll talk about the server side,
we've finished talking about the clients,
so we'll talk about how a server looks.
Sockets on the server, so we've been
talking about, in the previous lectures,
about writing code for a client, a generic
client on your raspberry pie, lets say.
So now lets look at
the other side of that,
lets look at the steps that
are required to make a generic server.
And the server is also going to
have to create a socket, but
it has a bit of a different set of steps,
a different sequence of steps
than what you see in a client.
So we'll look at that right now.
So first a server, once you have a server
process running on your machine, it needs
to sit there and wait for requests to come
in, right, that's the job of a server.
It listens for requests,
waits for requests,
when a request comes in, it receives
the request, processes the request,
gets the results, and
then sends the results back.
So a server's bit of a different
thing than a client.
So the first thing a server is going to
have to do is create a socket, right,
that it's listening to, a local socket.
Then it's gotta bind the socket
to an IP address and port.
So when you create the socket at first,
it's just floating there,
not connected to anything.
It needs to be associated
with a particular port and
IP address of the remote thing
that it's connecting to.
Which you may not know yet,
but we'll talk about that.
Then once it's bound, the socket,
it's gotta listen to that socket.
So listening means just sitting there and
waiting for a message to come in.
Now then once the message comes in,
it's got to accept the connection right?
Once the request comes in, once say
a client says, look I want to connect,
once a client tries to connect,
the server has to accept that connection
in order to get some communication going.
So it accepts the connection.
Then it receives a request.
So once the connection is made,
the client sends some data and
the server receives that data,
so it receive a request.
It processes a request and
sends the response, so
it sends data back along the same
connection to the client.
And, yeah that's it, that's
the outline of what should happen, so
lets go through some of the steps,
what the code would look like.
I have omitted the first part where you
input socket, we assume we're doing that.
So on the server,
the first thing you are going to do is
you are going to create the socket.
And then you're going to bind the socket.
So, the first line of code,
mysock = socket.socket,
it calls that function socket
which creates a socket.
And actually, that first line of code is
the same as what goes on on the client
to create the socket.
But, the next line is different.
You have to bind the socket
to an IP address and a port.
Now the port number I'm
using here is 1234.
I made that up.
It's not a well known port.
It's just some generic port because
this is just some generic service.
But notice that if I were making
a web server or something like that,
if I were making a web server or something
like that I could actually use Port 80,
for instance, because I know that's for
web traffic and so on.
In this case, I'm using an arbitrary port
1234, just because it's out of the way and
it's not associated with anything.
Now, the first argument to the bind
[COUGH] is just empty quotes, right.
The first argument is the host that you
want to associate it with, the other host,
the host that you're connecting to.
But of course,
we don't know what the host is yet, right?
The server's sitting there waiting for
a host to connect to.
It doesn't know what host
it's going to connect to.
So, you pass as an argument,
just as nothing, as quotes.
And, what that allows it to do,
it's like a wild card.
It allows it to receive from any host.
So you just pass it nothing for the host.
Put you give it the port
that you want to listen on.
Give it some port number
that's out of the way,
unless you actually are making like a
well-known service, like a web service or
something like that, and
then you use the appropriate port.
So you create the socket and
then you bind it.
Yeah, arbitrary and not well-known.
Okay now once it's bound, you're going to
want to listen to the socket and
then accept any connections that come in.
So listen starts listening for
a connect, right?
And listening, listen means it's waiting
until some client calls connect, right,
trying to connect to the socket.
So you call listen.
Notice that listen, mysock.listen, and
listen takes an argument, a number.
That number is called a backlog.
That's the number of requests
allowed to wait for service.
So the way we're writing this code,
the server can only,
we're doing single
threaded code right now.
Which means that we're only going to
be able to handle one service request
at a time, right.
So the question is how many,
you know say you were serving a request.
How many other clients can
be waiting in line for
you to finish serving until
they get served, right.
And that's what the BAG log is.
And we're listing.
We're putting five arbitrarily.
We can put any number we want.
It basically tells you
how long the waiting
line is going to be for the clients.
So then the next line we call accept.
Accept, once you're listening to the port,
it tries to accept it.
Accepting a connection request
is accepting the call to connect
from the client, okay.
So you want to accept it.
So you call mysock.accept,
now this returns two things,
so notice that it says conn comma address.
You can do this in python,
a function can return two things and
in this case we are returning two things.
The first thing is going
to be the bound to conn,
the second thing will be the address.
The first thing that returns
is the connection, right?
You need this connection to
receive data and to send data.
So the server's going to need to do that,
so that's what the connection's for.
The addr is the address
it is connected to.
So that's the IP address and
the port number.
Now the port number we know
because we bound to that port, but
the IP address we wouldn't know until
you call accept, and then the IP,
the address is going to
contain the IP address
of the client that's connected to you,
and trying to talk to you.
So now you have this connection and
this conn, this
connection is what you're going to use to
receive data on and send a response back.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]